Many people have heard of the
fight or flight response.
It refers to a set of nerve and hormone signals
that cause physical changes to help us deal with danger.
It is produced by a part of your
nervous system that works automatically,
called the sympathetic nervous system.
When you encounter almost anything challenging,
a tiny region at the base of your brain
called the hypothalamus
releases a hormone called
corticoreleasing hormone, or CRH.
This hormone travels a short distance
to the pituitary gland at the base of the brain
and triggers release of another hormone
known as adrenocorticotropic hormone.
This hormone, also known as ACTH,
travels through your blood stream to your adrenal glands,
located just above each of your kidneys.
ACTH stimulates the adrenal glands to release epinephrine,
also known as adrenaline,
norepinephrine, and cortisol.
Together, these hormones produce the
physical changes associated with
the fight or flight response.
Your heart rate and breathing rate increase.
The sweat glands on your skin
become more active and your pupils dilate.
Goosebumps occur when nerve signals cause
tiny muscles attached to hair follicles to contract.
The hair follicles rise above the rest of the skin,
and these tiny elevations
are what we call goose bumps.